All right.
Let's continue working on our breadth first search.
So we've now got our list of files right here.
So this is going to be the initial list of files that we need to walk.
Remember that was the entire idea behind this algorithm.
We take a look at that directory.
Get the files and folders throw them into an array that was returned to us automatically so that's the
array right there that we care about.
Now we're going to iterate through files and for everything inside there.
We're going to check and see for working with the directory if we are then we're going to look inside
of it and see if these are all files and folders inspect them and then handle them appropriately so
instead of the returned files right here I'm going to replace it with a four letter file of files
so now file is going to be the name of the file or the folder that we are currently iterating over so
we need to take a look at this thing.
And first off decide if it is a file or a folder.
Remember how we did that earlier inside the course in order to decide if something was a file or a folder.
We made use of the L stat function also from the no J.S. Standard Library the FSA module in particular.
So just like reader there are three versions.
We've got the callback the sync version if we keep going down we'll find FSS promises not l stat so
this will give us back a stats object that we can use to decide whether or not the given thing that
we're looking at is a file or a folder.
Because right now when we call reader all we get back is whether or not or the name of this file we
don't know if it's a directory or a file.
So that's why we have to call l step on it get that object back and then you use these stats object
to decide if it's a file or a folder.
Ok.
So inside of here we're going to first take the name of the file that we're working with.
This is just the simple name of the file and we're going to convert it into the full absolute name of
the file.
So like the directory plus the file name as well.
So to do so I'll say file path is path dot join we're going to join together at the root directory that
we're operating on.
So target path and the name of the file as well.
And that's going to give us one big long absolute path and file name to the file we're currently working
on.
Now we're making use of the path module also from the node standard library.
So let's make sure that we get a require statement up here for that as well.
Then after that let's run our l stack command on the file path.
So let's say con stats is a weight F S dot promises l stat we'll pass in the file path so remember that
stats object we can take a look at that thing here's the documentation for the stats object stats object
has a couple of methods tied to it named is directory and also is file so we're going to call is directory
and is file on that stats object to decide if we're working with a file or a folder so I'll first take
care of the file case I'll say if stats dot is file and then I'll do my else case else if stats dot
is directory.
Now let's take care of this file case first when we look at each individual file remember what the entire
goal of is of this function we're working on right now we're trying to find all the different files
that have a name of something something dot test dot J.S. so we need to detect whether or not this file
that we're operating on has the dot test dot J.S. extension we can use a very simple approach for that
we'll say if this is a file and file includes the string dot test dot J.S. and that means that this
is a file that we want to care about and we want to save a reference to it.
So backup inside of our constructor.
We created the this dot files instance variable and we set it equal to an array.
So this is where we're going to store the absolute parts of all the different test files that we have
so we can eventually invoke them.
Now one thing ought to mention about the code we have right now.
We have an instance variable called this dot files and we also have a local variable inside of our collect
files function called simply files.
This is the kind of thing that very easily leads to confusion because you might sit there and say to
yourself Hey wait.
Am I working with this files or the variable files.
So just to alleviate any confusion here let's date the name of this dot files to this dot test files.
It's also a little bit more descriptive.
It says this is the location of all the test files that we care about so if we have a thing that is
a file and it has that name let's add it into that test files array.
So let's say this dot test files dot push and rather than just throwing the name of the file inside
there.
So like file path let's instead wrap it inside of an object.
I'll give the object a property name and have that be the file path.
You'll see why we're creating an object here in just a little bit
OK.
So now let's handle the other case the case in which we have a directory so remember if we have a directory
we want to take a look at that directory we want to find all the children inside of it.
Let's take a look at test instead.
So if we have a directory we want to find all the children's side of it.
And we want to add it into our array
so for that we're gonna come down to our Elsa.
Right here we'll say counts child files is a wait f s dot promises read DIR.
So this is what's going to give us everything inside the current file that we're working on we'll pass
in the file path loops lowercase P.
There we go so now that we've got that big array of all that stuff we care about we're going to join
it all into or push all that stuff into the files array that we're currently iterating over so to do
so we'll save files not push and we're not going to say child files.
Remember child falls right here is going to be an array of strings files is an array of strings.
If we called simply files not push we would end up with something looks like this something it says
like hey here's our index dot J.S. file or whatever else.
And then if we push in an array of strings we would end up with a nested array inside there with some
other file names of like whatever s our C directory and test and so on.
So we don't want to directly push in child files.
Instead we want to add in each element inside of child files to the original files array.
So to do that we can make use of the dot dot dot syntax.
So that says Take everything from child files all the elements inside that array and add each one individually
into the files array
one other little thing to be aware of your when we do this file or when we iterate over our file.
We are getting just the name of the file by itself.
So in other words right now when we get that child files array we would get back simply at test start
J.S. in widgets and we would essentially take these things and add them into the array.
Down here the reason that this is an issue is that when we eventually iterate through all the elements
inside the array we then at some point call path not join with target path and file.
So in other words we would end up with something like Slash users.
Steven Greider workspace whatever flash widgets and a problem here is that we didn't capture any of
the names of the earlier files or folders that we were had to walk through to get to the test folder.
So this would fail right here because we haven't put in the name movies inside there.
So to make sure that we do that before we push all this stuff into the array we're going to map over
it really quickly we'll say that for each file which I will abbreviate as simply f we will call path
dot join and join together the name of the current file that we were iterating over in this case we
know that's a folder by this point and F Ok I know this is some pretty nasty stuff right here.
This is all the code we have to write.
We are now all done.
If any this is confusing I would highly encourage you to add in some console logs inside of here and
then run the program inside of any given directory on your machine try to tinker around with some of
the code like for example take off the map statement we just added if that was confusing you're going
to run into an error very quickly.
You can do a little bit of debugging and see exactly why we just added that little last part in and
the same goes for just about everything else inside of here as well.
Now at the bottom of collect files just so we can test this out I'm going to once again return.
So we don't need to return yet.
We don't need to return any files just yet.
We actually have the test files instance variable so in order to test this out we'll go back over to
our indexed j ust file we no longer have to receive anything because we're not returning a thing and
then for the consulate statement I'll update it to run our dot test files and let's say this go back
over to our terminal and run it anywhere inside of our project.
So I'm going to see an empty array in many locations because remember we now have an implementation
that looks specifically for the dot test dot J.S. extension so if I end up going back over to the testing
folder that we just had a moment ago some movies testing inside of there we've got the test directory
and inside of it is a test out J.S. file.
So if we invoke Tumi right here I would expect to see an object that has the path to that autocomplete
test out his file and it looks like I do.
And what's more you'll notice that is the full absolute directory as well.
So little bit nasty but we got through it so let's take a quick pause right here.
We've now completed this kind of step 1 to our approach we've stored a reference to each test file we
find.
So now we need to think about how we're going to actually execute all these different files so quick
pause and I'll see you in just a minute.